Caramel Pecan Cookies Recipe courtesy Gourmet Magazine

Recipe Summary 
Difficulty: Medium 
Prep Time: 25 minutes 
Inactive Prep Time: 2 hours 30 minutes 
Cook Time: 1 hour 
Yield: 3 to 4 dozen cookies

Crust: 
Ingredients for Basic Butter Cookies, recipe follows 

Caramel pecan topping: 
 1½ cups sugar 
  1 cup heavy cream 
  ¾ stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into bits 
  1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
  ½ teaspoon salt 
  2 cups pecans (1/2 pound), toasted, cooled, and coarsely chopped

To make the crust: Grease a 13 by 9-inch metal baking pan, then line
with foil, leaving a 2-inch overhang on both ends, and grease foil.
Follow recipe for basic butter cookies to make dough (do not chill),
then press dough evenly onto bottom of baking pan, using plastic wrap on
top to prevent dough from sticking to your fingers, and chill until
firm, about 20 minutes. 

While crust chills, put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to
375 degrees F.  Bake crust until golden brown, about 30 minutes. Cool in
pan on a rack 20 minutes. (Leave oven on.) To make topping while crust
cools: Cook sugar in a 2 1/2 to 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate
heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Continue to cook, stirring
occasionally with a fork, until sugar is melted to a deep golden
caramel. Tilt pan and carefully pour in cream (caramel will harden and
steam vigorously). Cook over moderately low heat, stirring, until
caramel is dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in butter, vanilla,
salt, and pecans. 

Immediately spread topping over cooled crust and bake until bubbling,
about 20 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack, about 2 hours.  Run a
heavy knife under hot water, then wipe dry and cut confection into
2-inch triangles, diamonds, or squares. Caramel pecan cookies keep,
layered between sheets of waxed paper or parchment, in an airtight
container at room temperature 1 week.

Basic Butter Cookies: 
  2 cups all-purpose flour 
  ½ teaspoon baking powder 
  ½ teaspoon salt 
 1½ sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened 
  1 cup sugar 
  1 large egg 
  ½ teaspoon vanilla extract 

Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.  Beat
together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at
medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing
mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 with a handheld.
Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and
mix until just combined.


