Chicken Cacciatore

Added by Ree on October 17, 2010 in Main Courses, Poultry
Prep Time 10 Minutes
Cook Time 1 Hour15 Minutes	Servings 6	Difficulty Easy

Ingredients
  1 pound Pasta Or Egg Noodles
  8 whole Chicken Thighs, Skin On (can Use Any Whole Piece Chicken)
    Salt And Freshly Ground Black Pepper, To Taste
  ½ cups All-purpose Flour
  4 Tablespoons Olive Oil
  2 Tablespoons Butter
  1 whole Medium Onion, Halved And Sliced
  2 whole Red Bell Peppers, Cored And Sliced (not Too Thin)
  2 whole Green Bell Peppers, Cored And Sliced (not Too Thin)
  5 cloves Garlic, Diced
 12 ounces, weight Mushrooms (white Or Crimini), Sliced
  ½ teaspoons Ground Thyme
  ¼ teaspoons Turmeric
  ½ teaspoons Kosher Salt
    Red Pepper Flakes, Crushed, To Taste (optional)
  ¾ cups Dry White Wine
  1 can (28 Ounce) Whole Or Diced Tomatoes (with Their Juice)
    Chopped Flat Leaf Parsley
    Parmesan Cheese, For Sprinkling

Preparation Instructions

Preheat oven to 350 degrees (F).

Cook pasta according to package directions. Do not overcook! Drain and set
aside.  Salt and pepper both sides of the pieces of chicken. Dredge chicken in
flour. Heat olive oil and butter in a heavy skillet or Dutch oven on the
stovetop over medium-high heat. Place chicken skin down in pan, four pieces at
a time. Brown chicken on both sides, then remove to a clean plate. Repeat with
remaining chicken. Pour off half the fat in the pan and discard.  Add sliced
onions and peppers, as well as the garlic. Stir around for 1 minute. Add
mushrooms and stir around for 1 minute. Add thyme, turmeric, and salt. (And
crushed red pepper flakes if you like things a little spicy.) Add extra black
pepper to taste. Stir, then pour in wine. Allow to bubble.

Pour in canned tomatoes and stir to combine. Add chicken back into the pan,
skin side up, without totally submerging the chicken. Place lid on the pot and
put it into the oven for 45 minutes. Remove lid and increase heat to 375
degrees. Cook for an additional 15 minutes.

Remove pan from the oven. Remove chicken from the pot and place it on a plate.
Remove vegetables from pot and place them on a plate. Return pot to burner and
turn heat to medium high. Cook and reduce sauce for a couple of minutes.

Pour cooked, drained noodles on a large platter or in a big serving bowl. Add
vegetables all over the top, then place chicken pieces on top of the
vegetables. Spoon juices from the pot over the chicken and pasta (amount to
taste.)

Before serving, sprinkle on chopped fresh parsley and grated Parmesan.
