Grilled Steak with New Mexican Chile Rub


Serves 6 to 8 Shell sirloin steak is also known as top butt, butt steak, top
sirloin butt, top sirloin steak, and center-cut roast. Spraying the rubbed
steaks with oil helps the spices bloom, preventing a raw flavor.


INGREDIENTS
STEAK
    2 teaspoons tomato paste
    2 teaspoons fish sauce
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
  1/2 teaspoon onion powder
  1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
    2 (1 1/2- to 1 3/4 pound) boneless shell sirloin steaks, 1 to 1 1/4 inches thick


SPICE RUB
    2 dried New Mexican chiles, stemmed, seeded, and flesh torn into 1/2-inch pieces
    4 teaspoons cumin seeds
    4 teaspoons coriander seeds
  1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
  1/2 teaspoon black peppercorns
    1 tablespoon sugar
    1 tablespoon paprika
  1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
      Vegetable oil spray


INSTRUCTIONS


1. For the Steak: Combine tomato paste, fish sauce, salt, onion powder, and
garlic powder in bowl. Pat steaks dry with paper towels. With sharp knife, cut
1/16-inch-deep slits on both sides of steaks, spaced ½ inch apart, in
crosshatch pattern. Rub salt mixture evenly on both sides of steaks. Place
steaks on wire rack set in rimmed baking sheet; let stand at room temperature
for at least 1 hour. After 30 minutes, prepare grill.


2. For the Spice Rub: Toast chiles, cumin, coriander, pepper flakes, and
peppercorns in 10-inch skillet over medium-low heat, stirring frequently, until
just beginning to smoke, 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer to plate to cool, about 5
minutes. Grind spices in spice grinder or in mortar with pestle until coarsely
ground. Transfer spices to bowl and stir in sugar, paprika, and cloves.


3a. For a Charcoal Grill: Open bottom vent completely. Light large chimney
starter mounded with charcoal briquettes (7 quarts). When top coals are
partially covered with ash, pour two-thirds evenly over grill, then pour
remaining coals over half of grill. Set cooking grate in place, cover, and open
lid vent completely. Heat grill until hot, about 5 minutes.


3b. For a Gas Grill: Turn all burners to high, cover, and heat grill until hot,
about 15 minutes. Leave primary burner on high and turn other burner(s) to
medium.


4. Clean and oil cooking grate. Sprinkle half of spice rub evenly over 1 side
of steaks and press to adhere until spice rub is fully moistened. Lightly spray
rubbed side of steak with vegetable oil spray, about 3 seconds. Flip steaks and
repeat process of sprinkling with spice rub and coating with vegetable oil
spray on second side.


5. Place steaks over hotter part of grill and cook until browned and charred on
both sides and center registers 125 degrees for medium-rare or 130 degrees for
medium, 3 to 4 minutes per side. If steaks have not reached desired
temperature, move to cooler side of grill and continue to cook. Transfer steaks
to clean wire rack set in rimmed baking sheet, tent loosely with aluminum foil,
and let rest for 10 minutes. Slice meat thin against grain and serve.