Herb Roast Chicken

For evening cooking, arrange the chickens side by side a few inches apart on
the V-rack, with the legs pointing in opposite directions.

INGREDIENTS

    1 cup chopped fresh parsley
    2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme
    1 tablespoon chopped fresh rosemary
    2 garlic cloves, minced
      Salt and pepper
    2 tablespoons olive oil
    2 whole chickens (3 1/2 to 4 pounds each), giblets discarded
    1 cup plus 2 tablespoons water
    2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 1/4 cups low-sodium chicken broth
  1/4 cup white wine
    2 tablespoons unsalted butter, chilled

INSTRUCTIONS

1. MAKE HERB PASTE Process parsley, thyme, rosemary, garlic, 2 teaspoons salt,
and 1 teaspoon pepper in food processor until paste forms. Reserve 1 teaspoon
herb past for sauce. Combine 2 tablespoons herb paste with oil in small bowl.
Set aside remaining herb paste for under skin.

2. PREPARE CHICKEN Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 450
degrees. Pat chickens dry with paper towels. Following Step by Step photos 1
and 2, rub remaining herb paste under skin of each chicken, making sure to coat
breast, thigh, and leg meat. Rub herb-oil paste over outside of each chicken.
Tuck wings behind back, and tie legs together with kitchen twine. Transfer
chickens to platter. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour.

3. ROAST CHICKENS Arrange chickens 2 inches apart, breast side down, on V-rack
set inside large roasting pan. Roast until thigh meat registers 135 to 140
degrees, 35 to 40 minutes. Remove chickens from oven and, using wad of paper
towel, flip breast side up (meat that was facing inside should now be facing
outside). Pour 1 cup water into roasting pan. Return chickens to oven and roast
until thigh meat register 170 to 175 degrees, 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer
chickens to carving board and let rest 20 minutes.

4. MAKE SAUCE Whisk cornstarch with remaining water in small bowl until no
lumps remain. Pour pan juices and any accumulated chicken juices into liquid
measuring cup; skim fat. Transfer 1/2 cup defatted pan juices to medium
saucepan. Add broth and wine and bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low and
simmer until sauce is slightly thickened and reduced to 1 1/4 cups, 8 to 10
minutes. Whisk in cornstarch mixture and simmer until thickened, 3 to 5
minutes. Off heat, whisk in butter and reserved herb paste. Season with salt
and pepper. Carve chickens and serve, passing sauce at table.
