Carrot Layer Cake


From America's Test Kitchen episode: Great American Classics.
Serves 10 to 12


Shred the carrots on the large holes of a box grater or in a food processor
fitted with the shredding disk. Do not substitute liquid buttermilk for the
buttermilk powder. To ensure the proper spreading consistency for the frosting,
use cold cream cheese. If your baked cake is of an uneven thickness, adjust the
orientation of the layers as they are stacked to produce a level cake.
Assembling this cake on a cardboard cake round trimmed to a 6 by 8-inch
rectangle makes it easy to press the pecans onto the sides of the frosted cake.


INGREDIENTS
CAKE
1 3/4 cups (8 3/4 ounces) all-purpose flour
    2 teaspoons baking powder
    1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
  3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
  1/2 teaspoon salt
  1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 1/4 cups (8 3/4 ounces) light brown sugar
  3/4 cup vegetable oil
    3 large eggs
    1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 2/3 cups shredded carrots (4 carrots)
  2/3 cups dried currants
FROSTING
   16 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
    3 cups (12 ounces) confectioners' sugar
  1/3 cup buttermilk powder
    2 teaspoons vanilla extract
  1/4 teaspoon salt
   12 ounces cream cheese, chilled and cut into 12 equal pieces
    2 cups (8 ounces) pecans, toasted and chopped coarse


INSTRUCTIONS
1. FOR THE CAKE: Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 350
degrees. Grease 18 by 13-inch rimmed baking sheet, line with parchment paper,
and grease parchment. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon,
nutmeg, salt, and cloves together in large bowl.  


2. Whisk sugar, oil, eggs, and vanilla together until mixture is smooth. Stir
in carrots and currants. Add flour mixture and fold with rubber spatula until
mixture is just combined.


3. Transfer batter to prepared baking sheet and smooth surface with offset
spatula. Bake until center of cake is firm to touch, 15 to 18 minutes. Cool in
pan on wire rack for 5 minutes. Invert cake onto wire rack (do not remove
parchment) and then reinvert onto second wire rack. Cool cake completely, about
30 minutes.


4. FOR THE FROSTING: Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, beat butter, sugar,
buttermilk powder, vanilla, and salt on low speed until smooth, about 2
minutes, scraping down bowl as needed. Increase speed to medium-low; add cream
cheese, 1 piece at a time; and mix until smooth, about 2 minutes.


5. Transfer cooled cake to cutting board, parchment side down. Using sharp
chef’s knife, cut cake and parchment in half crosswise and then lengthwise to
make 4 equal rectangles, about 6 by 8 inches each.


6. Place 6 by 8-inch cardboard rectangle on cake turntable or plate. Place 1
cake rectangle, parchment side up, on cardboard and carefully remove parchment.
Using offset spatula, spread 2/3 cup frosting evenly over cake layer. Repeat
with two more layers of cake, frosting each layer with 2/3 cup frosting and
pressing gently on each layer to level. Place last rectangle of cake on top and
frost top of cake with 1 cup frosting. Use remaining frosting to coat sides of
cake. (It’s fine if some crumbs show through frosting on sides, but if you go
back to smooth top of cake, be sure that spatula is free of crumbs.)


7. Hold cake with 1 hand and gently press chopped pecans onto sides with other
hand. Chill for at least 1 hour before serving.


To Make Ahead: The cake may be refrigerated for up to 24 hours before serving.