Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy
SERVES 6 TO 8

If you’re short the 2 tablespoons of meatloaf drippings needed to make the
gravy, supplement them with melted butter or vegetable oil.

INGREDIENTS

    1 cup water
  1/4 ounce dried porcini mushrooms, rinsed
   16 square or 18 round saltines
   10 ounces white mushrooms, trimmed
    1 tablespoon vegetable oil
    1 onion, chopped fine
      Salt and pepper
    4 garlic cloves, minced
    1 pound ground pork
    2 large eggs
    1 tablespoon plus 3/4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
    1 pound 85 percent lean ground beef
  3/4 teaspoon minced fresh thyme
  1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 1/2 cups low-sodium chicken broth

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 375 degrees. Microwave
water and porcini mushrooms in covered bowl until steaming, about 1 minute. Let
sit until softened, about 5 minutes. Remove porcini from bowl with fork and
mince. Strain porcini liquid through fine-mesh strainer lined with coffee
filter; reserve ¾ cup.

2. Process saltines in food processor until finely ground, about 30 seconds;
transfer to large bowl. Pulse half of white mushrooms in processor until finely
ground, 8 to 10 pulses.

3. Heat oil in 12-inch nonstick ovensafe skillet over medium-high heat until
shimmering. Add onion and cook until browned, 6 to 8 minutes. Add processed
white mushrooms and ¼ teaspoon salt and cook until liquid evaporates and
mushrooms begin to brown, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and cook until fragrant,
about 30 seconds. Transfer to bowl with saltines and let cool completely, about
15 minutes.

4. Add pork, eggs, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire, 1 teaspoon salt, ¾ teaspoon
pepper, and ¼ cup reserved porcini liquid to cooled white mushroom– saltine
mixture and knead gently until mostly combined. Add beef and knead until well
combined. Transfer meat mixture to now-empty skillet and shape into 10 by
6-inch loaf. Bake until meatloaf registers 160 degrees, 45 to 55 minutes.
Transfer meatloaf to carving board using spatula and tent loosely with aluminum
foil.

5. Thinly slice remaining white mushrooms. Discard any solids in skillet and
pour off all but 2 tablespoons fat. Heat fat over medium-high heat until
shimmering. Add sliced white mushrooms and minced porcini mushrooms and cook,
stirring occasionally, until deep golden brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Stir in thyme
and ¼ teaspoon salt and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add flour and
cook, stirring frequently, until golden, about 2 minutes. Slowly whisk in
broth, remaining ½ cup reserved porcini liquid, and remaining ¾ teaspoon
Worcestershire, scraping up any browned bits, and bring to boil. Reduce heat to
medium and simmer, whisking occasionally, until thickened, 10 to 15 minutes.
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Slice meatloaf and serve with mushroom
gravy.
