Pad Thai


Ingredients
    8 ounces dried wide rice noodles
  1/4 cup fish sauce (nam pla)
    3 tablespoons tamarind juice
    2 tablespoons sugar
    3 tablespoons peanut oil
1 1/2 pounds large shrimp, peeled with tails on
    4 garlic cloves, finely chopped
    2 shallots, sliced
    1 fresh red chile, sliced
    1 large egg, lightly beaten
    1 cup fresh bean sprouts
  1/2 cup chopped unsalted roasted peanuts
    1 lime, cut into small wedges
  1/4 cup fresh cilantro leaves


Directions


Soak the dried rice noodles in cool or lukewarm water for 30 minutes, or until
they're limp but still firm to the touch; later cooking in the wok will soften
them more. Drain the noodles thoroughly in a colander and set aside while
preparing the other ingredients.


In a small bowl, mix the fish sauce, tamarind juice, and sugar; stir well to
melt the sugar. Taste and adjust flavors to the desired combination of salty,
sour, and sweet.


Heat a wok over medium-high heat until it is smoking hot. Add 1 tablespoon of
the oil and quickly stir-fry the shrimp until they turn pink and are almost
cooked through; 1 to 2 minutes. Remove the shrimp to a plate and cover to keep
warm.


Add the remaining oil to the wok and toss in the garlic, shallots, and chile;
stir-fry for 30 seconds. Push the garlic and shallots to 1 side of the wok and
pour the egg into the center. Scramble the egg lightly until set, breaking it
up into pieces with a spatula. Add the drained noodles to the wok, stirring and
tossing quickly with 2 spatulas to separate the strands. Pour in the fish sauce
mixture, tossing well to coat the noodles and keep them from sticking (if the
noodles are still too firm, drizzle with 1 to 2 tablespoons of water to help
them cook.)


When the noodles are in good shape, toss in 1/2 of the bean sprouts and
peanuts; save the remaining for garnish. Continue to stir-fry, to combine.
Return the shrimp to the wok and toss the pad thai together to warm everything
through. Serve the pad thai on a platter, pile the remaining bean sprouts and
peanuts on 1 side of the dish and garnish with the lime wedges and cilantro.
Squeeze lime juice over each portion before eating.