Rainbow Chicken




Spice Rub:
2 teaspoons sweet or smoked paprika
1 teaspoon cumin
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon black pepper
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar
(I only had red wine vinegar... don't be afraid to improvise!!)
1 teaspoon olive oil
2 cloves garlic, minced


1 potato, skin on, diced small
1 sweet potato, peeled, diced small
1 medium onion, cut into lengths
1 bell pepper, cut into lengths
1 zucchini, cut into chunks
2 carrots, peeled and cut into chunks
1 lemon, sliced thin cross-wise


If you are picky ;) or don't like certain veggies... just omit them or replace
them with ones you do enjoy!!


First things first... Prepare your vegetables!!
For some, this would be a given but there have been many times where I skip the
preparations that are given in the ingredients (the measuring, dicing, mincing,
peeling) and then when it comes time for that item in the recipe itself... I
have to hurry like a fool and prepare it before something boils over or burns!


Take a second and look at all those beautiful vegetables, would you please?!
They are worth all the trouble!


Preheat your oven to 425F.
Mix the spice rub ingredients in a large bowl


(And by large bowl... they mean larger then this orange one I decided to use)


Rinse the chicken pieces under running water, pat dry with paper towels, then
drop into the Spice Rub and turn to coat.


Arrange the chicken in a single layer in an oven-safe skillet or casserole dish.
(as shown in the background of another blurry picture!! geh! I am learning.)


Drop the vegetable into the remaining spice rub (there won't be a lot, but it
will be just enough!), give it all a stir and then scatter over the top of the
chicken. Top with lemon slices.


*Okay, I didn't think there was enough spice rub left and I added another dash
of everything into the bowl.  And this is where a larger bowl would have been
helpful, those vegetables were practically over flowing!






Yum! Yum! Yum!


Cover and bake for 45 minutes (add up to 20 minutes longer if using a baking dish covered with foil) or until no pink remains in the chicken pieces. Let rest for 5 minutes...






Serve and enjoy!