Taqueria Beef Tacos with Curido Slaw

Beef
 1½ cups beer (Substitute Beef Broth)
  ½ cup cider vinegar
  2 ounces (4-6) dried ancho chiles, stemmed, seeded, and torn into inch pieces
  2 tablespoons tomato past
  6 garlic cloves, lightly crushed and peeled
  3 bay leaves
  2 teaspoons ground cumin
  2 teaspoons dried oregano
    pepper
  ½ teaspoon ground cloves
  ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
  1 large onion, sliced into 1/2" thick rounds
  3 pounds boneless beef short ribs, trimmed and cut into 2" cubes

Curido Slaw
  1 cup cider vinegar
  ½ cup water
  1 teaspoon sugar
 1½ teaspoon salt
  ½ head of green cabbage, cored and sliced thin (6 cups)
  1 onion, sliced thin
  1 large carrot, peeled and shredded
  1 jalapeño, stemmed, seeded, and minced
  1 teaspoon dried oregano
  1 cup chopped fresh cilantro

 18 6" corn tortillas
  4 ounces queso fresco, crumbled (1 cup)
    lime wedges

1. FOR THE BEEF:  Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat
oven to 325 degrees.  Combine beer, vinegar, anchos, tomato paste,
garlic, bay leaves, cumin, oregano, 2 teaspoons salt, ½ teaspoon pepper,
cloves, and cinnamon in Dutch oven.  Arrange onion rounds in a single
layer on bottom of pot.  Place beef on top of onion rounds in a single
layer.  Cover and cook until meat is well browned and tenter, 2½ to 3
hours.

2.  FOR THE CURIDO SLAW:  While beef cooks, whisk vinegar, water, sugar,
and salt in a large bowl until sugar is dissolved.  Add cabbage, onion,
carrot, jalapeño, and oregano and toss to combine.  Cover and
refrigerate for at least an hour or up to 24 hours.  Drain slaw and stir
in cilantro right before serving.  

3.  Using slotted spoon, transfer beef to large bowl, cover loosely with
aluminum foil, and set aside.  Strain liquid through fine mesh strainer
into 2 cup liquid measuring cup (do not wash pot).  Discard onion rounds
and bay leaves.  Transfer remaining solids to blender.  Let strained
liquid settle for five minutes, then skim any fat off surface.  Add
water as needed to equal 1 cup.  Pour liquid in blender with reserved
solids and blend until smooth, about 2 minutes.  Transfer sauce to now
empty pot.

4.  Using two forks, shred beef into bite-size pieces.  Bring sauce to
simmer over medium heat.  Add shredded beef and stir to coat.  Season
with salt to taste.  (Beef can be refrigerated for up to two days;
gently reheat before serving.)

5.  Spoon small amount of beef into each warm tortilla and serve,
passing slaw, queso fresco, and lime wedges separately.
